# Movie-Revenue-Budget-and-Vote-Averages
The data set being used in this project is originally from the TMDb (The Movie Database) and contains information about over 10,000 movies. 
It was cleaned from the original data on Kaggle.com. It contains extensive information about each movie, and the vote count and vote average come from people that have visited the Movie Database.

# Questions and Answers
The first question: Does a higher budget always result in higher revenue and do certain years have higher budgets and/or higher revenues?
Research Question 1: Does a higher budget always result in higher revenue and do certain years have higher budgets and/or higher revenues? First off, I wanted to make sure I could compare budget and revenue in a way that takes into account the effect of inflation. I thought comparing budget adjusted and revenue adjusted would be a good place to start. After dropping all of the rows that had null values, the amount of rows went from 10,865 to 3,855 which just shows how many null values would have skewed the data. I wanted to look at all of the descriptive statistics, and focus the most on the mean, budget, revenue, budget_adj and revenue_adj numbers. I found that the lowest 25% in terms of budgets and revenues are very similar to each other but that they highest 25% (shown as 75%) is showing much higher revenues than budgets. I decided to group the adjusted revenues and adjusted budgets by the mean of each year. I sorted them in descending order and found that the top 17 years for adjusted revenue was all in the 1960's and 1970's. My theory for this ties in with the fact that this database is much more selective about movies in the database from the 1960s and the 1970's. I show more proof of this later on in this conclusion. Adjusted budgets have 8 of the top 10 positions between 1997 and 2004. My theory behind this is that movies were starting to make much more money in the mid-1990's, so the studios poured much more money into the budgets to try to capitalize on the success (as we will see when we get to my created column "actual revenue" later in this summary). Comparing adjusted budgets and adjusted revenues showed that there awas not a direct correlation between the two as seen on the scatterplot on In[21]. There are plenty of movies with a high adjusted budget and low adjusted revenue. There are also plenty of movies with a high adjusted revenue and a low adjusted budget.
I decided to create a new column called "actual_revenue" which subtracted budget from revenue to show the actual sum that a movie made after subtracting the costs. I grouped the actual revenue mean by release year and found that the seven highest actual revenue years were either in the 1970's and 2010's. In the years directly after the highest actual revenue years, there seemed to be a big dip in actual revenues. (as seen in Out[25]). Looking at the scatterplot on In[26], there was a jump in actual revenue in the mid-1990's but that also started an era where there were many more movies with a negative actual revenue (meaning that the budget was higher than the revenue). Studios seemed to be taking more risks with pouring money into the budget of movies.

The second question: How is vote average effected by variables such as release year, budget/revenue, and runtime of the movies?
Research Question 2: How much of an effect does release year, budget/revenue and runtime of movies have on the vote average? I started with looking at the descriptive statistics again since I was comparing a number of different variables with a single variable (vote average). I paid lots of attention to the mean/min/max vote average (6.16 mean with a range between 2.2 to 8.4), the mean release year (2001, showing a skew towards modern films), and the mean/min/max for actual revenue (showing a big range of numbers negative to positive).
On the bar chart for Out[28], I show just how big of a difference there is in how many movies in the database are from before 1990 and after 1990. For example, there are 50 movies between 1960-1965 and over 1,000 for 2010-2015. The next bar chart for Out[29] shows how many movies for each vote average. The vast majority falls in between 5.0 and 7.0. With the database being much more selective about older movies, it would make me think that the vote averages would be higher for them than for modern films. With Out[30], I organized the mean of the vote average for each year in descending order and found that the top 6 release years were all in a row from 1970-1975. A critically golden age for film. The top 14 years did not feature any year after 1979. What effect does budget and revenue have on the vote average? I predicted that there would be a correlation, but not a completely clean one. Sometimes the highest grossing films are not critically acclaimed, and sometimes there are cult movies that are acclaimed but didn't make much money. Looking at Out[32], all of the top actual revenue movies were 7.0 and higher for vote average. There are outliers like the 3.4 vote average which actually grossed more than the 8.2 vote average, but overall there is a correlation. Comparing vote average in terms of adjusted revenue vs. adjusted budget, there is a marked difference. Looking at Out[33] and the two scatterplots comparing the two, there is definitely a positive trend line for vote average as aligned with revenue_adj. For budget_adj it is much less clear. I think it shows that movies that have a high revenue usually are critically acclaimed, but it is not as clear cut when a movie has a high budget.
My final analysis was the effect that runtime of movies has on vote average. As I would have guessed, longer movies tend to be more critically acclaimed. Lower rated movies tend to have shorter runtimes.
